# Technical Information

FASTdrive is based on Citrix Sharefile Enterprise Edition, and consists of 3 primary components:

* SaaS Application Tier (hosted by Citrix) – sometimes referred to the as the Control Plane, this is a Citrix-managed component that consists of web, database, and API servers
* StorageZones (hosted by UKFast) – this is where Customer Data is stored.
* Clients – ShareFile / FASTdrive supports a broad device list, which includes but is not limited to Windows and Mac OSX, Android and iOS, Windows phone and Windows Metro


## SaaS Application Tier

The ShareFile SaaS Application Tier is hosted in Citrix's Data Centre. The components include:
* NetScaler – used to load balance client requests to the ShareFile.com/eu web and API webservers
* ShareFile.com/eu webservers designed to deliver the Web UI
* API webservers used for client devices and tools using the HTTPS and REST API, including the Outlook plug-in, mobile and sync applications
* Database – SQL database instances which contain things such as account data, file and folder metadata, including access rights, user account data, logs etc. The database in the SaaS Application tier does not process or store any customer data files

The NetScalers and web servers are installed in the DMZ with the SQL databases installed in the private network behind an additional firewall. The SQL database instances are securely replicated to a second Data Centre for backup and disaster recovery purposes.

__Encryption__

To protect customer data in transit ShareFile supports TLS 1.2 with up to 256 bit AES encryption and no less than 128 bit encryption with the negotiation to TLS/AES-256 dependent on whether the end user's device or proxy supports TLS/AES-256.

__Hash-based message authentication code__

Hashing is defined as producing hash values for accessing data or for security purposes. A hash value (or simply hash) is a number generated from a string of text. The hash is substantially smaller than the text itself, and is generated by a formula in such a way that it is extremely unlikely that some other text will produce the same hash value.

In security systems, hashes are used to ensure that transmitted messages have not been tampered with. The sender generates a hash of the message, encrypts it, and sends it with the message itself. The recipient then decrypts both the message and the hash, produces another hash from the received message, and compares the two hashes. If the hashes are the same, it indicates that the message was transmitted intact.

__Metadata__

Customer files are never processed, stored or transferred to the ShareFile SaaS application tier. Instead we store metadata (defined as data which describes other data). Citrix uses SSAE 16 Type II accredited or ISO 27001 certified Data Centres to host the SaaS application and metadata. All files are stored in SSAE 16 Type II (SOC1), SOC2 and ISO 27001 accredited Data Centres with high availability and durability ratings.


## StorageZone Tier

__Upload/Download Speed__

The following process describes how files are uploaded to, or downloaded from, the FASTdrive application and the security measures employed;
* Client requests a file.
* A prepare message is sent by the ShareFile web application or API servers in the SaaS application tier to the StorageZone hosting the file. The location of the file is stored in the SaaS application tier database, accessed by the ShareFile web application and API servers.
* A hash-based message authentication code (HMAC) based on the Shared Key used to establish a trust relation between the SaaS application tier and StorageZone, is sent as part of the prepare message and is validated by the StorageZone Controller.
* Once validated, the StorageZone confirms the validity and generates a unique one-time-use download token.
* The ShareFile web application or API server provides the download link to the Client with the unique download token.
* To start the actual download, the Client connects to the StorageZone.
* The download token (part of the download request from the Client), is validated.
* If validation is successful, the file will be retrieved from storage.
* The StorageZones controller server will send the file to the Client.


__Encryption in Transit__

Customer files are protected in transit between the web application and the UKFast on premise storage location using TLS with using 256 bit encryption.

__Encryption at rest__

UKFast stores client files at rest using AES 256-bit encryption, a Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) encryption algorithm.

__Redundancy/Backup__

Every element of the UKFast infrastructure used to host the FASTdrive service is designed to N+1 standards, including:

1. Cisco ASA Firewalls which are locked down to Citrix SaaS Application Tier
2. UKFast Load Balancers
3. Cisco UCS Blades
4. Enterprise HP3PAR SAN Storage
5. trix StorageZone Controllers
6. eCloud Vault Storage used to store Customer Data



* All Citrix StorageZone Controller data is backed up on a daily basis using UKFast‘s Enterprise Commvault Backup.
* UKFast can guarantee 100% power and connectivity to the FASTdrive solution
* There is a 45 day retention policy on all customer data. This is a global policy set on the platform. If a customer deletes a file, each customer has the ability through their own customer portal to restore these files.
* Cloud Vault stores three copies of each file stored in FASTdrive – this is a standard feature of the product

__Access/Security__

FASTdrive is a secure self-managed platform. Each customer will be provided with their own portal URL provided by the Citrix SaaS Tier and an Administrator User created. This Administrator user can login to the portal and manage:
* Check-In / Check-Out Functionality
* File/Folder Upload and Download Permissions
* Email Alerts and Notifications on Upload/Downloads
* Employees – paid for users who require all FASTdrive features and functionality
* Clients – free of charge users who are not employee users i.e.; 3rd party contractors who require access to particular files/folders. These users do not have the full functionality that FASTdrive offers.
* Multi-Factor Authentication – Customers may setup a multi-factor (strong) authentication process that requires submission of the account password and a secondary authentication such as SMS or Text, in order to access the account.
* Password Policies that are set per customer account that include password history, expiration and complex controls such as length, uppercase and lowercase letters, at least one number and at least one special character
* Optional SSO and Active Directory integration that requires an ADFS configuration applied at the customers site
* Customisable Terms and Condition Login Pages to indicate compliance with the terms before logging in
* Account Lockout policies,  Account Activity Reporting, Email Encryption and Access Log Retention
* Read Only Access to Files, Offline Access and IP Restrictions
* Apps include – Windows/Mac/Linux. Print and Scan directly to the FASTdrive account. Drive Mapper. Sync Tools and more.
* Mobile Device Security including: File Self-Destruct, External Application Interaction, Encryption, Remote Wipe.

UKFast Data Centres are ISO 27001 certified, PCI-compliant and secured up to UK government IL4 standards, which ensures your solution is protected by exceptional levels of both physical and virtual security at all times.
